Changes
~~~~~~~

The 1.9 series of ``anybox.recipe.openerp`` and ``anybox.recipe.odoo``
are stable versions.

This changelog displays timelines for the two recipes
``anybox.recipe.openerp`` was considered upstream of
``anybox.recipe.odoo`` until release of version 1.9.2b1 of the latter.

anybox.recipe.odoo 1.9.3 (UNRELEASED)
-------------------------------------
-

anybox.recipe.odoo 1.9.2 (2016-09-20)
-------------------------------------
- identical to 1.9.2b1

anybox.recipe.odoo 1.9.2b1 (2016-08-29)
---------------------------------------
- github #43: new option ``apply-requirements-file`` (and pip version
  compatibilities handled in #76)
- github #18: Support develop-dir option from gp.vcsdevelop
- adapted nightly archive UR
- github #63: option via environment variable to skip PostgreSQL user
  checks (useful in Docker cases)
- github #30: fixed regression with option ``gunicorn.preload_databases``
  that appeared in 1.9.0

Git subsystem
+++++++++++++

- github #78: skip querying remote for commit specified by its SHA and
  already locally available
- github #69: (git) allow merging via sha1 hash
- github #29: merge broken with Git 1.7.9
- github #71: (git) option to disable the warning about relying on
  SHAs

Runtime / scripts / upgrade
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- github #37: made Odoo's new API ``Environment`` instance available
  to ``Session`` instance, and subsequent fixes:

  + github #77: environment (part of Odoo's new API) used to be broken by
    installation of modules

- github #23: cursor auto-closing in upgrades, and more robustness of
  ``Session.close()``
- github #37: fetch and apply superuser's context to session.

Freeze/extract
++++++++++++++

- github #33: during freeze, if the origin buildout configuration uses
  an already frozen revision specification, do not replace it by the
  result of introspection of local clone. Especially meaningful with Git,
  because this used to replace nice tags with SHAs that are less
  reliable.
- github #20: value of ``recipe`` option now gets copied to extracted
  buildout even if it has no extras such as ``[bzr]``

Documentation
+++++++++++++

- github #73: consistency of working dirs in shell code examples
- github #60: new responsive theme using `Sphinx
  Bootstrap Theme <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/sphinx-bootstrap-theme>`_
- renamed many occurrences of OpenERP to Odoo

Development
+++++++++++

- Github pull requests get tested by Travis with Coveralls.
  `Anybox's buildbot <https://buildbot.anybox.fr>`_ is still around
  for integration tests actually requiring to install Odoo and to run
  unit test against slightly different software bases
- cleanup and unification of ``setup.py`` subcommands
- less setuptools clutter in unit tests runs

anybox.recipe.odoo 1.9.1 (2014-12-17)
-------------------------------------

- github #20: Avoid duplicate entries in the addons option generated by
  extract-downloads-to
- github #7: template for ``upgrade.py`` was missing for a.r.odoo

anybox.recipe.openerp 1.9.1 (2015-01-12)
----------------------------------------
- github PR #5: ``ir_model_data`` helpers for
  the ``Session`` API (sripts and python shell)
- github #6: fixed download URL for OpenERP 6.1-1
- github #3: [git] support HEAD as a (remote) revision
  specification. In a related way, added the branch indication to SHA
  pinning, which isn't deprecated any more due to wide usage, only
  warned that it's suboptimal.

anybox.recipe.odoo 1.9.0 (2014-12-05)
-------------------------------------
- first release, skimmed from anybox.recipe.openerp 1.9.0
- rename to anybox.recipe.odoo

anybox.recipe.openerp 1.9.0 (2014-12-02)
----------------------------------------
- launchpad #1332147: insensitivity to project name in setup.py
  (openerp, odoo, whatever).
- launchpad #1332465: [git] support for shallow clones (--depth),
  refactor to allow this consistently with detached head states,
  branch changes, etc.
- launchpad #1358353: with github layout, respect ordering if the place of the
  standards (non-base) addons is explicitely set as 'local' (allows to insert
  overrides before them).
- launchpad #1391571 (related): revert used to fail with grouped
  standalone addons
- launchpad #1391571 (related): revert used to fail if some sources
  were 'local' or 'downloadable'.
- launchpad #1214832 (related): introduction of explicit 'group'
  option for standalone addons.
- launchpad #1294020: vcs-revert=on-merge option, and implementation
  for bzr
- launchpad #1274174: new feature for automatic merge of remote VCS
  sources, with bzr support.
- launchpad #1327773: [git] support for automatic merges
- launchpad #1392913: extract-download-to completely removes the
  gp.vcsdevelop extension and the bzr extra in the produced buildout
- launchpad #1232729: handling of server-wide modules by the recipe
- launchpad #1327609: support inline comments in multi-line options

1.8.6 (2014-11-17)
------------------
- launchpad #1358353: with github layout, respect ordering if the place of the
  standards (non-base) addons is explicitely set as 'local' (allows to insert
  overrides before them).
- launchpad #1391258: [git] clear-retry is now honoured (a last chance
  in case of non updatable repos), but a 'git reset' gets tried first
  to circumvent impossible fast-forwards and avoid full recloning in
  these cases.
- launchpad #1208028: another case where parsing of exception while
  installing egg failed. Rewrote the whole logic, with much unit-testing
- fixed URL and filenames for nightlies

1.8.5 (2014-07-29)
------------------
- gevent script generation backported to version 7.saas~3 and following
- launchpad #1343518: versions < 8 with layout of odoo on Github had severe
  shadowing issues.
- launchpad #1338405: [odoo] provided necessary environments init in session
  (needed for interactive session and various scripts)
- launchpad #1249566: [bzr] avoid outgoing requests in offline mode
  due to lp: locations resolution
- launchpad #1244721: fixed final reporting of upgrade script with python 2.6
- launchpad #1208745: [hg] robustness about content of .hg/hgrc

1.8.4 (2014-06-16)
------------------
- launchpad #1327756: support new addons layout on github
- launchpad #1324579: [odoo] generation of gevent script (longpolling)
  and have it used through the --workers option
- launchpad #1321919: [v8] fixed potential masking of standard library
  by addons of the same name
- launchpad #1234014: [git] tracked branch were not properly updated
  if the branch was already the current one
- launchpad #1320198: [bzr] using revids internally and in particular
  in freeze/extract features
- launchpad #1320198: [bzr] forbidding change of parent location in
  offline mode unless this is for a fixed revision ID (no ambiguity),
  and forcing a pull in non offline mode.
- launchpad #1317269: [v8] OpenERP server can't start in a multi workers mode
- launchpad #1314566: [v8] OpenERP scripts & interpreter can't load db

1.8.3 (2014-04-19)
------------------
- launchpad #1281262: new ``openerp-log-level`` modifier in ``openerp_scripts``
- launchpad #1289761: using the proper ``zc.buildout.UserError`` in
  lots of places.
- launchpad #1296178: have unparseable addons lines end up in
  ``UserError`` as well.
- launchpad #1229908: fixed tarball download url for the 6.0.x releases

1.8.2 (2014-02-08)
------------------
- launchpad #1275168: when freeze nightly version was not set correctly
- launchpad #1245261: new ``--init-all`` option in ``test_openerp``
  and ``start_openerp`` scripts.

1.8.1 (2013-10-17)
------------------
- launchpad #1235946 (demo data): consistent behaviour and capability
  to load them.
- launchpad #1239721: now session has 'is_initialization' attribute for
  creation use-cases of upgrade script; using it to improve logging,
  and in default upgrade script.


1.8.0 (2013-10-01)
------------------
- launchpad #1222482: upgrade toolkit and upgrade scripts generation
- launchpad #1222116: [Gunicorn] option to preload databases

1.7.4 (unreleased)
------------------
- launchpad #1246822: restored the ordering of addons_path as it was
  in 1.7.0 (main addons first).

1.7.3 (2013-10-17)
------------------
- Fixed the licence in ``setup.py`` and hence on PyPI page. The ZPL
  indicated was contradictory with what is stated on Launchpad's
  project page, and plain non applicable, since the recipe *does* import
  from OpenERP.
- launchpad #1232806: custom interpreter and openerp_scripts now work
  with OpenERP 6.1
- launchpad #1233606: [bzr] lightweight checkout now respects --offline

1.7.2 (2013-09-29)
------------------
- launchpad #1232724: [gunicorn] properly switching openerp to
  multi-process mode
- SAAS versions now recognized, and treated as X.5
- launchpad #1228997: [v5] in some cases, start_openerp --stop-after-init was
  not honoured.
- launchpad #1222562: [git] error in extract-downloads-to

1.7.1 (2013-09-07)
------------------
- launchpad #1215838: don't freeze develop / gp.vcsdevelop distributions
- launchpad #1213469: openerp scripts: support for entry point
  arguments
- launchpad #1215833: preserve regular develops in extract-downloads-to
- launchpad #1215873: [git] re-buildout with revision fixed versions crashes
- launchpad #1217816: [bzr] proper update of lightweight checkouts
- launchpad #1203550: [v8] using the openerpcommand that comes now bundled
  with openobject-server
- launchpad MP #182002: new 'etc-directory' option (default behaviour
  unchanged).
- launchpad #1208028: wrong error message in case of distribution
  version conflict
- launchpad #1216498: fixed python interpreter extra paths
- launchpad #1216835: [bzr] mispelling in 'lightweight-checkout' option
- launchpad #1205063: no more error if no addons are specified (might
  lead to problems with the default config, though, because of server
  wide modules, but that's supposed to be overridable)


1.7.0 (2013-07-26)
------------------
- launchpad #1189160: easy integration of general purpose unit test launchers
- launchpad #1201715: allow easily working in a virtualenv with extra-requires
  on bzr (allows easily to work with zc.buildout 2.2 on systems providing
  setuptools < 0.7 / distribute)
- launchpad #1202150: [git] proper support for remote branches
- launchpad #1200449: new flexible ``openerp_scripts``; general refactor of
  script generation code.
- launchpad #1203005: vcs options not passed through (addons and main software)
- [bzr] support for lightweight checkout, with uniform 'bzr-init' option
- launchpad #1204573: [bzr] retry in two steps for some bzr branching
  cases where it fails to branch directly to wished revision.
- launchpad #1128146: new option in ``freeze-to`` to disallow picked
  versions, stopping not freezing of distribute.
- introduced ``vcs.base.CloneError`` with wrappers for ``check_call``
  and ``check_output``.

1.6.4 (2013-07-14)
------------------
- launchpad #1200198: hg: determination whether rev spec is fixed could be wrong
- launchpad #1194887: 'clean' option for git and hg now use the native solution

1.6.3 (2013-06-23)
------------------
- launchpad #1192973: 'clean' option now based on bzr clean-tree (more
  powerful, and avoids in particular removing empty dirs, which is a local
  modification that prevents later on freezing)

1.6.2 (2013-06-15)
------------------
- launchpad #1189402: order of the addons_path is now deterministic
- launchpad #1189162: registry helping avoid double evaluaton of
  custom addons models (helps launching unittest2 tests directly)
- launchpad #1191279: first implementation of new 'clean' option,
  dealing with python object files only.

1.6.1 (2013-06-06)
------------------
- launchpad #1188402: fixed git clone init on a precise revision

1.6.0 (2013-05-30)
------------------
- launchpad #1183005: python interpreter that can bootstrap OpenERP
  and open a database for interactive session or to launch a script.
- launchpad #1182589: avoid IOError if a bzr branch has no branch.conf
- launchpad #1185097, #1185100, #1185101, #1185741: advanced support
  for Git (precise revision, freeze, extract) allows including Git
  repositories in a full release process for tarball deployments.

1.5.5 (2013-05-20)
------------------
- launchpad #1182146: clearer user feedback and exit status code = 17
  for freeze-to in case of local modifications of VCS server or addons.

1.5.4 (2013-05-14)
------------------
- launchpad #1169124: regression: offline mode not honoured with bzr

1.5.3 (2013-04-11)
------------------
- launchpad #1166788: regression with bzr "revid:" revision specifications

1.5.2 (2013-04-06)
------------------
- launchpad #1154719: freeze-to does not take the correct bzr revision number
- launchpad #1133248: "need more than 1 value to unpack" if some bzr's
  branch.conf has extra content not in the key = value form
- support for bzr stacked branches for the server branch in the same
  way as was already done in addons.
- launchpad #1152808: corrected parsing of options.log_handler in
  gunicorn setups (introduced a constant to treat comma-separated list
  options in gunicorn conf)
- launchpad #1153036: avoid pulls in case the specified revision is
  a fixed one that we already have (bzr and hg only)
- launchpad #1115504: extract-downloads-to now works with bzr version
  shipping with Debian squeeze

1.5.1 (27-02-2013)
------------------

- launchpad #1130590: errors with inline comments such as freeze-to produces

1.5.0 (14-02-2013)
------------------

- works with zc.buildout 2.0
- launchpad #1115503: now it's possible to apply ``extract-downloads-to``
  for a buildout configuration that uses the ``revisions`` option: the
  produced configuration resets ``revisions`` if needed.
- launchpad #1122015: soft requirements problem if offline on zc.buildout 2.0
- quality: now entirely flake8 compliant

1.4 (16-01-2013)
----------------

- launchpad #1093771: extraction feature of downloaded code (notably vcs)
- launchpad #1068360: new 'revisions' option to fix VCS revisions separately
- launchpad #1093474: freeze feature of revisions and versions of
  python distributions
- launchpad #1084535: finer behaviour of ``with_devtools`` option:
  load testing hacks only in tests launcher script
- launchpad #1095645: missing devtools loading in openerp-command
  scripts
- launchpad #1096472: forbid standalone (single) local addons. A local
  addon must always be a directory that has addons inside.
- launchpad #1096472: trailing slash in a standalone addon directory name
  led to error.

1.3 (21-11-2012)
----------------

- launchpad #1077048: fix gunicorn startup script for OpenERP 7
- launchpad #1079819: take into account newly introduced hard
  dependency to PIL in OpenERP 7
- launchpad #1055466: refactor version logic by providing major
  version tuple for comparisons.
- launchpad #1081039: introduced soft requirements and made
  openerp-command one of these.

1.2.2 (11-11-2012)
------------------

- Nothing but fix of changelog RST

1.2.1 (08-11-2012)
------------------

- Fixed an error in user feedback if openerp-command package is missing but
  needed

1.2 (07-11-2012)
----------------

- launchpad #1073917: separated test command (bin/test_openerp)
- launchpad #1073127: support for openerp-command
- major improvement of test coverage in server recipe
- included buildout configurations for buildbotting of the recipe in source
  distribution

1.1.5 (14-10-2012)
------------------
- Improved documentation (bootstrap and sample buildouts)
- Re-enabled support for trunk nightly (and maybe 7.0 final)
- fixed a packaging problem with openerp-cron-worker in 1.1.4

1.1.3 (26-09-2012)
------------------
- launchpad #1041231: Resilience to changes of bzr locations
- launchpad #1049519: openerp-cron-worker startup script
- launchpad #1025144: By default, admin passwd is now disabled
- launchpad #1054667: Problem with current dev nightlies for OpenERP 6.2
- fixed a packaging problem with openerp-cron-worker in 1.1.2

1.0.3 (24-08-2012)
------------------
- no actual difference with 1.0 (only changelogs and the like)

1.0 (24-08-2012)
----------------
- launchpad #1040011: works with current OpenERP trunk (future 7.0)
- launchpad #1027994: 'base_url' option, to download from mirrors
- launchpad #1035978: restored 'local' version scheme for OpenERP
  itself. Also implemented the 'url' version scheme.
- removed deprecated renaming of 6.1 to 6.1-1
- Refactored the documentation

0.17 (07-08-2012)
-----------------
- launchpad #1033525: startup_delay option
- launchpad #1019888: Gunicorn integration.
- launchpad #1019886: installation of 'openerp' as a develop distribution, and
  full python server startup script.
- launchpad #1025617: Support for nightly versions in 6.1 series
- launchpad #1025620: Support for latest version
- launchpad #1034124: Fix interference of buildout options with
  gtkclient recipe
- launchpad #1021083: optional development tools loading in startup script
- launchpad #1020967: stop creating scripts by default
- launchpad #1027986: Better handling of interrupted downloads

0.16 (29-06-2012)
-----------------
- launchapd #1017252: relying on Pillow to provide PIL unless PIL is
  explicitely wanted.
- launchpad #1014066: lifted the prerequirement for Babel. Now the recipe
  installs it if needed before inspection of OpenERP's setup.py

0.15 (14-06-2012)
-----------------
- launchpad #1008931: Mercurial pull don't take URL changes into
  account. Now the recipe manages the repo-local hgrc [paths]
  section, updates the default paths while storing earlier values
- launchpad #1012899: Update problems with standalone vcs addons
- launchpad #1005509: Now bzr branches are stacked only if
   ``bzr-stacked-branches`` option is set to ``True``.

0.14.1 (17-05-2012)
-------------------
- launchpad #1000352: fixed a concrete problem in Bzr reraising

0.14 (17-05-2012)
-----------------
- launchpad #1000352: option vcs-clear-retry to retrieve from scratch in case
  of diverged Bzr branches. Raising UpdateError in right place would trigger
  the same for other VCSes.
- Basic tests for Git and Svn
- Refactor with classes of VCS package

0.13.1 (14-05-2012)
-------------------
- launchpad #997107: fixed vcs-clear-locks option for bzr, that
  requires a user confirmation that cannot be bypassed in older versions

0.13 (14-05-2012)
-----------------
- launchpad #998404: more robust calls to hg and bzr (w/ unit tests),
  and have exception raised if vcs call failed (break early, break
  often).
- launchpad #997107: vcs-clear-locks option (currently interpreted by
  Bzr only)

0.12 (02-05-2012)
-----------------
- launchpad #993362: addons subdir option, and made repositories being
  one addon usable by creating an intermediate directory.

0.11 (18-04-2012)
-----------------

- Faster tarball inspection (see lp issue #984237)
- Shared downloads and more generally configurable downloads
  directory, see https://blueprints.launchpad.net/anybox.recipe.openerp/+spec/shared-downloads

0.10 (02-04-2012)
-----------------

- fixed the sample buildouts in the readme file

0.9 (23-03-2012)
----------------

- Clean-up and refactoring
- Removed `url` option (download url supported through `version`)
- Support OpenERP 6.1 and 6.0
- Added an 'addons' option allowing remote repositories and local directories
- Improved error messages
- Updated the documentation
- Handle bad Babel import in setup.py
- Support offline mode of buildout
- Create gtk client config without starting it

0.8 (20-12-2011)
----------------

- handle deploying custom bzr branches

0.7 (14-09-2011)
----------------

- handle new sections in openerp config

0.6 (11-09-2011)
----------------

 - Overwrite config files each time
 - Make the "dsextras" error more explicit (install PyGObject and PyGTK)
 - fixed some deps
 - improved the doc

0.5 (10-08-2011)
----------------

 - Use dotted notation to add openerp options in the generated configs

0.4 (09-08-2011)
----------------

 - Added support for the web client and gtk client

0.3 (08-08-2011)
----------------

 - fixed config file creation

0.2 (08-08-2011)
----------------

 - Pass the trailing args to the startup script of the server

0.1 (07-08-2011)
----------------

 - Initial implementation for the OpenERP server only
